Hello, this is my readme.md for my final project.
For the first 3 days, I worked on creating sprites(and researching adding images from photoshop to p5js) on my drawing tablet to provide background characters and the player sprite to help fill out the game enviornment. The initial goal was a scoring game based around a timed window to collect notes, but I wanted the project to involve some of my personal creative skills, and be themed around a band I thoroughly enjoy, Ghost. To achieve this, I spent a day learning how to create pixelart through photoshop so I could export it to my project, while also trying to figure out how the size of each sprite might look once on the canvas. I wanted to create 3 band members for background characters, and one more detailed sprite based on Papa Emeritus, the lead singer of the band. Working on Papa or just "ghost" was started first, with the other band members being completed on thursday May 1st. The struggles for this portion came I started trying to animate the Ghost sprite, as I hadn't really considered organizing my code yet, and began noticing that scoring and movement were becoming a one or the other sort of conundrum, where once the first note was scored, the entire up, down, left, right movement scheme became frozen. After clearing up this issue after an unfortunate amount of time trying to figure out the cause, I managed to reorganize the positioning of my scoring code, which seemed to make the keypressed function begin working again. 

This project was a bit of a technical struggle for me, as I had to spend several days reading into how to make my music play, and interact with the scoring and movement portion of the game. I wasn't aware initially how much effort would be spent simply investigating the p5.js website for helpful keywords to help make my project possible. A great example would be setting up a timer to stop the music if the player fails to collide with a note within 10 seconds. Thankfully, there seemed to be resources and blog posts online of people struggling with similar issues, so after a bit of trial and error, I got the sound working, though its the part of the project I've had to go back and retroactively work on as it seemed to have issues running, loading, and performing properly on the live site. The noteblock itself, which randomly moves after scoring, also took a lot of time to work out, as collision was an area I wasn't very polished on in my understanding, and required a bit of referencing back to old class material, and online resources/videos. I'm very happy with how it turned out however, as the icon I made, and how it looks as an object in the space is perfect, and just how I imagined it.

During the weekend before the project was due, I ended up running into an unexpected pitfall where I was put in a caregiver role in my family, and as a result had much less time than planned for to work on the project, and finish its core features. My days which I had planned to have 4-5 hours for each turned into 2 hours, and I had to start being realistic about what things needed to be finished, and which things needed to be put on the backburner. Unfortunately, that meant much less time to dedicate to the custom pixel art background I was working on to help fill out the canvas, while I shifted focus to improving how audio and the gameloop functioning together, with the main focus being on ensuring the player had enough time to reach each note before the song stops, and changing the movement, so that the player didn't zoom across the screen trying to catch each note, as I wanted it to feel like a challenge to catch each one, which is why I personally preferred tap controls, where each button press is an individual movement rather than gliding like my previous projects.

Overall, despite the limitations on what I was able to do for the background and additional sprites, I found this to be my most detailed project on a technical level, and really pushed me to get out of my comfort zone to make things work. I think the major failures here are certainly the lack of varied songs like I had hoped to include, and the lack of background assets, as I thought I'd have more time to work on them. On the other hand, the game itself plays just how I had imagined, its a collectathon where the only goal is to keep the music playing, like a 8bit version of some of the rockband games for the DS. I think in the future, I should be less ambitious about the scale of my projects, and focus more on fleshing out the core elements, leaving the aesthetics for later once the difficult groundwork has been set up, that way I won't feel like I need to make such serious compromises to finish my projects in the future.
