For my final project I would like to create a game inspired by my favorite band Ghost. The planned goal of the game is to circle around the stage as the lead singer collecting notes to help continue playing the song. If a note is missed, the song simply stops until another note is collected. The goal is to finish the song without missing most of the notes, and while I only have plans for a singular track so far, if the scope of the project needs to be expanded, adding another song to work through would certainly be possible. The final project is intended to be made with pixel art sprites and backgrounds/terrain created in p5.js which I am currently working on.  I’ll be making most of the outfits from original concepts I’ve had, and not from their current stagewear. The outfits, and theme of the stage is intended to be in theme with the band while also taking creative liberties to let the project stand on its own two feet in terms of aesthetics.

In regards to related and similar work which inspired this project, I mostly drew inspiration from the arcade band videos that pixel artist and animator ScorpAKWAL created for the band Ghost. They weren’t actual games, but more music videos inspired by pixelart and gaming aesthetics. I personally was inspired by the pixel art graphics and was a little disappointed when I found out there wasn’t an actual game, and that the graphics and “gameplay”  were mostly for visual flair.

There are few potential issues I’ve considered or experienced so far, other than the time consuming nature of the pixel art reducing the potential  scope of the project in terms of visuals on screen however, I do expect to run into some issues eventually when coding begins on the scoring of notes, and how it relates to the music playing. It’s something I’ve never had to do, and while it seems possible, I expect it to be a little tricky to fully implement, but not something I’m technically incapable of or completely unfamiliar with.


Deadlines for this project are relatively on track so far, by the 26th I wanted to have my pixel art outfits figured out before drawing them digitally, which has been successful aside from changes I plan to make to the player sprites colors so that there isn’t too much black, silver and grey on screen at once. By 4/30/25, I hope to have the coding for actual assets in the gamespace underway, with movement patterns for the musicians on stage, and the scoring system for notes implemented first. By 5/1/25 the goal is to have the notes and music functioning properly together when notes are collected. By friday 5/2/25, the goal is to have all pixel art completed with the remaining time, including  Monday, being intended for ensuring proper interactivity between all sprites, scoring tokens, and the player. Player interactivity with the environment will be the major focus during these final days of the project to ensure that the core premise of the game is able to function flawlessly. This will most likely take the form of testing for bugs, and cleaning up/reworking assets and changes made previously across the project. At the moment, I’m holding myself accountable to doing at a minimum an hour and 30 minutes of work every day including designing and coding as to ensure that I don’t let myself fall behind. 

In terms of work currently completed/ in process, I am currently sketching out and finalizing the outfits for the sprites, and have finished my research into how to practically make a music scoring system for the game. I’ve also picked out and created sound effects for scoring as well as the actual song that plays, which is provisionally a cover song by Ghost “Missionary Man” but in case that song is not acceptable, or I’m encouraged to source original music, I could also make a short 8bit version of one of their works from scratch, it would likely just have to be shorter.

